I think the tour taking me a little bit
more crispier though no no no I think
it's perfect the way it is
don't get defensive no I do I start
telling you how to fake spotted a Kurd
or whatever the hell you make at home
welcome to scramble where I take on some
new friends old friends with my favorite
dish today I put one of the best Mexican
chef anywhere on the planet we go back a
long way he is my little brother from a
different mother please welcome Shepherd
on Sanchez
thank you very much Gordon for having me
appreciate it c-captain nice to see the
budgets gotten bigger thanks really
anyway it's not it's not about the
backdrop of what goes on the pan I agree
yes I agree not only are you a prolific
judge standing alongside me on a daily
basis but you are the Mexican James Bond
of cuisine
where does that come from well I just
think the idea of being this good
looking in talented you can probably
blame my parents for that a little bird
told me this morning that you were voted
from People magazine one of the most
beautiful people in the world did you
stuff the ballot box no I think I
started stuffing myself after that Fame
but that was ten years and 40 pounds ago
right you know what
go on it was a lot of fun to kind of
recognize by the magazine it's somebody
that's attractive yeah I know that yeah
and listen graduations by the way but
what were you 14 15 no I was just asking
now I lost humble pie ten years ago it
meant a lot for me to write I could have
done that without my mother yeah you
just launched yours how hard was it
right in that book I'm using this book
as an opportunity to inspire others I
wanted people to know that it's not an
easy ride you know all the different
things that you and I do in our worlds
it's still the cooking is the most
important to our family yeah and
foundation and that comes across yes I
see well I appreciate that now I'm gonna
take you on with scrambled eggs but you
wanted to be an authentic Mexican
scrambled eggs so they'll do it inside a
breakfast taco breakfast tacos are all
the rage nowadays and for me the
traditional way of doing is always
started with chorizo eggs and some sort
of potato so you telling me now how to
make scrambled eggs yes absolutely yeah
you bet your sweet ass I'm telling you
that may the best man win
all right yeah let's go Jen mate I give
it inside to some of the early dishes
that you grew up you remember with mum
yeah I mean she was a prolific chef yeah
my mom had a restaurant in New York City
for 30 years
and really the idea was to take all the
traditional food that she had grown up
eating on a cattle ranch in Mexico and
bring it to the biggest food audience in
the world which is New York City yep so
she had overcome a lot of adversity a
lot of self-doubt and then I kind of
went along the ride-along line with her
right was one of the most harrowing
experiences I've ever seen I have so
much respect for my mom yep
she has done so much not only just for
me but for a generation of Mexican chefs
sure so I made a lot of initial trips to
Mexico and all over Latin America to
make sure I eat it myself so I spoke
from position of strength
so you went off the beaten track he's
sort of almost opposite what she did
exact and then brought that back to the
fault exactly and I need to develop my
own style and that was one of the
biggest things my mentors had mentioned
to me early on yet work don't
regurgitate what your mom and what your
mentors do find your culinary voice yes
and let it be clear for everyone to hear
it you know you know the deal yeah you
don't want to you know do things that
your mentors taught you you want to step
away
you have authenticity across your food
you're very passionate about what you do
you're a loving dad what's with all the
tattoos okay now initially yes you know
when I got to cook in the kitchens it
was a great place to kind of be a little
bit of a misfit an outlaw a rebel and
tattooing and early on was really part
of that kind of image I guess I wanted
to portray I loved how rock-and-roll it
was right and then it kind of took off
from there I have a lot of friends that
are tattoo artists and now I co-own a
tattoo shop so yes to show you but
they're everywhere
yes is it is there anywhere on your body
that doesn't have a tattoo I have one
butt cheek that's kind of bare right now
you have one butt cheek that is bad yeah
so I'm waited to complete the butt cheek
and then and then I truly be in test
tube bliss
exactly dudes inside the foundation
because I'll be pulling the foundation
over the last five years you're
sponsoring young Chefs that haven't been
given opportunity yes now the the kids
that I'm working with are from Latin
backgrounds yes young women and men from
all over the country and what I saw
initially when I started cooking was
that there was a despair
between some Latinos getting positions
of leadership and kitchens right I
wanted to provide them with the
foundation of a the best culinary
education possible so to create this
next generation of leaders in the
kitchen Oh see I don't fetch your
scholarship fund it's doing extremely
well
we have about five kids enrolled into
the program now and we're gonna put in
probably another three this year so I
think the proudest day of your career
would be what I've been cooking at the
White House a couple times was pretty
fantastic I had a chance to cook for
President Bush and for Obama was that
like walking in there you know what I
mean the pressure and the expectation
we're up the roof I remember going there
with my family being like this is
probably the most important meal I'm
ever gonna cook in my life so I we
nervous I was extremely nervous and
trying to choose a menu for heads of
state and all of their colleagues and
figuring out what's a university like
the menu you know how it is you cooked
for your royal team for presidents you
know the deal so that for me was one of
the biggest highlights I guess what
makes you nervous mmm failure thank you
yeah
not living up to the expectation that
people have of me and you know letting
people down I think that right there is
something that every ship possesses and
contains and you let you they use that
as a source of strength or it can really
consume you so I guess that just a fear
of failure I'm sure that's something
that concerns you too that's always in
the back of my mind yeah how important
is it for you to be a Mexican being
successful in America today what does
that what does that mean for you today
my father was from a town of 200 people
in the in the valley of Texas he was the
first Mexican American to get a masters
in the 50s for a thousand miles so it's
really about honoring honoring your
legacy their family and making sure that
you're an example to all those one
unbelievable generation you know kids
that want to do what we do every day
so I think that really is the goal and
that's what how it feels so rewarding
now away from the kitchen yeah what
relaxes you well you know I love
spending time with my family obviously
just like you do love one of the beach I
love being on the water I love to dance
like I know you're a big fan of dancing
I mean yeah I saw your MasterChef junior
brother we were
miss I've never seen a guy actually go
against the rhythm so much in my life I
know I can't dance I meet with Scott oh
no no no drinking but not dancing but
every time I do dance my daughters think
I'm having a fits exactly that's what
I'm saying so I'm not the only one oh I
love it
now the layering of a breakfast taco so
for me crispy tortilla or soft tortilla
shop let that be the base and then from
there we're gonna go ahead and start
working with your garnishes and
yourselves yes so you went bacon onion
mushroom right so very kind of European
a little bit chilly in there's a little
bit of chili
yeah I'm scallion okay cool gallery to
finish mine has a chorizo potato a
little bit of onion mm-hmm a little
tomato and then then I like to put all
my fresh herbs at the end right let's
have a look at these side by side you
still put bits on there yeah we're
cheating now you're taking the pace I'd
finish you put it over cut off now but
avocado you know it means testicle and
Astec so the Aztec language the word I
what cotton means testicle put put that
in your next book all right you go hold
on stop all day long amigo
so describe yours please I did first was
this describing with dill delicious all
right let's start with that Trudy song a
little bit of potatoes little onion of
course a little sauce on offense if I
woke up a so I have trembled egg started
off with a liberty reason and mushroom
over the bacon in there finish with them
chili top with salsa and finish with
your cheese would like a CK you mean to
think one of the best cheese's ever okay
is there anything you didn't put on
there Jesus look at that please please
stop being fussy come on take one of
mine I'll take one of yours and there we
go
expectations are high here chef
mmm indeed you fancified a breakfast
taco for the love of the baby Jesus but
you know what I'm happy you did it cuz
it's yummy
yours is delicious really good I think
that'll take a little bit more crispy
about no no no I think it's perfect the
way it is don't get defensive
do I start telling you how to bake
spotted dick or whatever the hell you
make at home so you're saying you wanna
make you always continue to make tacos
okay consider me your Mexican Messiah I
will free you from Bad Mexican food
thank you right that's it for scrambled
please leave a comment below on who you
think has done the best you share the
name with another famous out on Sanchez
basketball player no no a baseball
players yeah I better get that right
it's too many sports here
[Music]